---
Title: Auto Compile Brotli Module for Nginx on Debian
Author: Shinji
Date: 2020-05-29
Summary: I compiled the brotli module for my nginx installation and wrote a script to auto re-compile the module when nginx gets updated.
Draft: false
Tags: [linux, software]
---
## The brotli module
The brotli module is included in `nginx plus` but you still need to manually compile it if you are using the free version. I have a script for that, and you can run it after you install the `nginx` package.

It assumes that you have `sudo` privilege. See the code [here](/compile-nginx-br.txt).

The script will check the versions of the currently installed nginx and the nginx when the brotli module was last compiled. If a re-compilation is needed, it downloads the source code for `nginx` and the brotli module, and it uses `make` to compile the code, and will generate the so(Shared Object) files for the brotli module. After that it copies `ngx_http_brotli_filter_module.so` and `ngx_http_brotli_static_module.so` to `/etc/nginx/modules`.

To inform nginx to use the brotli module, add these 2 lines at the beginning of your `/etc/nginx/nginx.conf`
```
load_module modules/ngx_http_brotli_filter_module.so;
load_module modules/ngx_http_brotli_static_module.so;
```

You can turn on the brotli module by adding `brotli on;` and `brotli_static on;` in a `server` block. Moreover, you can choose to turn on brotli compression on what types of files, like below:
```
brotli_types text/plain text/css text/javascript
application/javascript text/xml application/xml image/svg+xml
application/json font/ttf text/html image/png
application/octet-stream;
```
Note that you can compress videos too, but `seeking` won't work on those videos.

## Automating the process

The compiled module files(aka `.so` files) are only compatible with the corresponding version of nginx, so in case the `nginx` package gets updated, you need to compile them again.

We can automate the compiling process by adding a dpkg hook.

I have the compile script at `/root/.local/bin/compile-nginx-br.sh`, and it has the permission to execute(`chmod +x /root/.local/bin/compile-nginx-br.sh`), and owned by `_apt`(`chown _apt /root/.local/bin/compile-nginx-br.sh`).

Edit `/etc/apt/apt.conf` file, and add a post-invoke hook.
```
DPkg::Post-Invoke {"/root/.local/bin/compile-nginx-br.sh";};
```
And you are probably done. Since the script will check the current nginx version, you don't need to worry about it being run too many times.
